The invention relates to a pineapple leaf fiber fine treatment method and belongs to the technical field of fiber fine treatment. According to the method, fibers are firstly subjected to pretreatment by ultrasonic waves, then subjected to swelling treatment by a swelling additive, then subjected to chemical degumming treatment after the swelling treatment to prepare pineapple leaf fiber degummed ramie, and finally teased and refined to obtain pineapple leaf fiber ramie stripes. A loosening fiber structure makes fibers slip easily under the effect of an external teasing and refining force, while the invention may increase the fiber looseness, improve the fiber fineness, improve the fiber quality, enable a chemical degumming additive to enter the inside of the fiber more easily, reduce sewage discharge during degumming, and decrease the degumming treatment cost.
The present invention relates to a fiber treatment method,t.
A pineapple leaf fiber fine treatment method includes the following steps:
(1) pineapple leaf fiber presoaking treatment:subjecting pineapple leaf fiber in a pretreatment solution to ultrasonic treatment, and then subjecting the pineapple leaf fiber to washing and dewatering treatment;(2) swelling treatment:putting the pineapple leaf fiber after pretreatment into a compound swelling additive solution for swelling treatment at a temperature of 20&#x2dc;75&#xb0; C., a PH value of 3&#x2dc;10 and a reaction time of 20&#x2dc;120 min;(3) degumming and bleaching treatment:subjecting the pineapple leaf fiber after swelling treatment to high temperature degumming treatment, then subjecting the pineapple leaf fiber to washing and dewatering, and then putting the pineapple leaf fiber into 5-15% hydrogen peroxide to bleach for 20&#x2dc;50 min at a temperature of 60&#x2dc;95&#xb0; C.;(4) oil feeding:soaking the bleached pineapple leaf fiber in a solution containing 0.5-3% modified silicone oil agent for 1&#x2dc;2 h at a soaking temperature of 30&#x2dc;75&#xb0; C.;(5) subjecting the treated pineapple leaf fiber to dewatering, shaking and drying to obtain the pineapple leaf fiber degummed ramie; and(6) teasing:spraying an emulsifying oil agent on the pineapple leaf fiber degummed ramie, the dosage of the emulsifying oil agent being 4%-10% of the weight of the fiber, standing in a curing room for a curing time of 24&#x2dc;96 h at a curing temperature of 35&#x2dc;50&#xb0; C.; and then performing mechanical teasing and extension refining to prepare the pineapple leaf fiber ramie stripes.
[0014-0000] The pineapple leaf fiber fine treatment method according to the present invention reduces degumming pollution, energy consumption and cost, and has low fiber damage and high ramie stripe producing rate.
This invention pertains to ethanol production methods. More particularly it relates to a method for producing acid washed wastewater cellulosic feedstock for ethanol production by injecting sulfur dioxide into wastewaters or waters containing cellulosic solids and fibers such as dissolved toilet papers found in wastewaters, manure from animal operations such as dairy lagoons, or any type of waters used specifically to separate, capture, and condition solids for ethanol production.
The present method provides a sustainable acid washed cellulosic feedstock suitable for conversion to cellulosic ethanol.
The present invention comprises injecting sufficient SO2 to transform waters containing cellulosic fibrous materials to lower the pH and provide free SO2, sulfites and bisulfites to chemically dewater and separate the solids from the wastewater to provide recovered acid treated cellulosic feedstock particularly suited for acid hydrolysis. Wastewater, as used herein, is principally directed to domestic sewage from dwellings, business buildings, institutions, containing ground water, surface water, and/or storm water, and can include wastewater, having already undergone primary and secondary treatment according to conventional treatment processes. However, if the method is employed as a primary treatment process, additional sources of fibrous material feedstock can be added to increase the overall content and volume of the cellulosic fiber produced and captured.
The method comprises chemically treating waters containing cellulosic solids, such as wastewaters, with sulfur dioxide to condition the water and separate the solids. The sulfur dioxide forms sulfurous acid, (H2SO3), dissociating to produce H+, bi-sulfite (HSO3&#x2212;), sulfite (SO3&#x2212;), and free SO2 species in solution, all hereinafter all referred to as sulfurous acid. The suspended solids are conditioned with sufficient SO2 to ensure they will chemically dewater when allowed to drain, forming a fairly dry acid washed solid. (7% water) with a pH of 4.6, a BTU content of 6,932 BTU/lb approximating wood chips or shavings.
A method for producing acid washed cellulosic feedstock from waters containing paper and/or suspended solids comprising:a. injecting sufficient sulfurous acid into the waters containing paper and suspended solids to agglomerate the paper and/or water solids, andb. separating the paper and/or water solids and allowing them to chemically dry to form an acidic biosolid, high in cellulosic content for use as a feedstock for acid hydrolysis and/or fermentation of the feedstock to produce ethanol.